extraction concepts, ingest workflow, embeddings + audio/video consolidation (#1970)
NVIDIA/nv-ingest: docs/docs/extraction/workflow-document-ingestion.md

## Choose how you call the library

The following examples match the [NeMo Retriever Library README](https://github.com/NVIDIA/NeMo-Retriever/blob/main/nemo_retriever/README.md). They assume a checkout of the [NeMo Retriever](https://github.com/NVIDIA/NeMo-Retriever) repository and the `batch` run mode with local GPU inference unless you configure remote NIMs.

### Ingest a test PDF (Python)

The [test PDF](https://github.com/NVIDIA/NeMo-Retriever/blob/main/data/multimodal_test.pdf) contains text, tables, charts, and images. The pipeline below explicitly chains `.extract()`, `.embed()`, and `.vdb_upload()` so chunks are embedded and written to your configured vector store in one `ingest()` call.

```python
from nemo_retriever import create_ingestor
from pathlib import Path

documents = [str(Path("data/multimodal_test.pdf"))]
ingestor = create_ingestor(run_mode="batch")

ingestor = (
    ingestor.files(documents)
    .extract(
        extract_text=True,
        extract_charts=True,
        extract_tables=True,
        extract_infographics=True,
    )
    .embed()
    .vdb_upload()

> )

Author: Cause
create_ingestor(run_mode="batch") returns GraphIngestor, which inherits vdb_upload() from the base ingestor class. That method only calls _not_implemented("vdb_upload"), so chaining .vdb_upload() fails before ingest().

Fix (docs)
Remove .vdb_upload() from the Python example; end the chain at .embed().
Replace the paragraph that said users should chain .vdb_upload() and that the snippet matched the CLI. New text states that GraphIngestor does not implement vdb_upload(), points to graph_pipeline for LanceDB upload (internal helper, not the fluent API), and links [Vector databases](vscode-file://vscode-app/c:/Users/kheiss/AppData/Local/Programs/cursor/resources/app/out/vs/code/electron-sandbox/workbench/vdbs.md) for storage patterns.
Intro to the snippet: warn not to append .vdb_upload() on this path.
Committed on kheiss/concepts-updates as 1a79322e. Push when ready: git push origin kheiss/concepts-updates.

dataset = ingestor.ingest()  # ``run_mode='batch'`` → ``ray.data.Dataset``; ``inprocess`` → ``pandas.DataFrame``
chunks = dataset.take_all()  # ``take_all()`` is a Ray Dataset API; use DataFrame methods in ``inprocess``
```

Run the above with your working directory at the repository root (so `data/multimodal_test.pdf` resolves), or adjust `documents` to the absolute path of the test PDF.

### Ingest a test corpus (CLI)

`graph_pipeline` is the canonical ingestion script used throughout the [QA evaluation guide](https://github.com/NVIDIA/NeMo-Retriever/blob/main/nemo_retriever/src/nemo_retriever/evaluation/README.md#step-1-ingest-and-embed-pdfs-nemo-retriever). Point it at a **directory** of PDFs to produce a ready-to-query LanceDB table.

!!! note "Corpus size and LanceDB indexing"

    LanceDB's default IVF index needs enough chunks to train its partitions (often on the order of tens of chunks). A single small PDF can be insufficient; use a directory with enough documents for your index settings. Replace `/your-example-dir` with your corpus path.

```bash
python -m nemo_retriever.examples.graph_pipeline \
  /your-example-dir \
  --lancedb-uri lancedb
```

> For remote NIMs instead of local GPU extraction and embedding, set [`NVIDIA_API_KEY`](api-keys.md#nvidia-api-key) and pass the `--*-invoke-url` / `--embed-invoke-url` options shown in the [README remote inference section](https://github.com/NVIDIA/NeMo-Retriever/blob/main/nemo_retriever/README.md#ingest-a-test-corpus-cli).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For build.nvidia.com hosted inference, set [`NVIDIA_API_KEY`](api-keys.md#nvidia-api-key) and pass the `--*-invoke-url` / `--embed-invoke-url` options shown in the [README remote inference section](https://github.com/NVIDIA/NeMo-Retriever/blob/main/nemo_retriever/README.md#ingest-a-test-corpus-cli).
```

## Choose how you call the library

The following examples match the [NeMo Retriever Library README](https://github.com/NVIDIA/NeMo-Retriever/blob/main/nemo_retriever/README.md). They assume a checkout of the [NeMo Retriever](https://github.com/NVIDIA/NeMo-Retriever) repository and the `batch` run mode with local GPU inference unless you configure remote NIMs.

### Ingest a test PDF (Python)

The [test PDF](https://github.com/NVIDIA/NeMo-Retriever/blob/main/data/multimodal_test.pdf) contains text, tables, charts, and images. The pipeline below explicitly chains `.extract()`, `.embed()`, and `.vdb_upload()` so chunks are embedded and written to your configured vector store in one `ingest()` call.

```python
from nemo_retriever import create_ingestor
from pathlib import Path

documents = [str(Path("data/multimodal_test.pdf"))]
ingestor = create_ingestor(run_mode="batch")

ingestor = (
    ingestor.files(documents)
    .extract(
        extract_text=True,
        extract_charts=True,
        extract_tables=True,
        extract_infographics=True,
    )
    .embed()
    .vdb_upload()
)

ray_dataset = ingestor.ingest()

> chunks = ray_dataset.get_dataset().take_all()

Author: Here is what was wrong and what we changed.

GraphIngestor.ingest() already returns the materialized value from the executor: a ray.data.Dataset in run_mode="batch" and a pandas.DataFrame in run_mode="inprocess" (see graph_ingestor.py around the ingest docstring and return result). get_dataset() is a method on GraphIngestor, not on Dataset; it exposes the last batch run’s Ray dataset for helpers like get_error_rows, not something you call on the return value of ingest().

The root README.md snippet was updated to match nemo_retriever/README.md: use dataset = ingestor.ingest() and dataset.take_all() for batch mode, with a short comment that inprocess returns a DataFrame instead.

# ingestor.ingest() actually executes the pipeline
# batch run_mode returns a ray.data.Dataset; inprocess returns a pandas DataFrame
dataset = ingestor.ingest()
chunks = dataset.take_all()  # Ray Dataset API (batch mode)
No other markdown in the tree had get_dataset() tied to ingest() results. docs/docs/extraction/concepts.md already describes the output as a Ray Dataset or pandas DataFrame, which matches this usage.
